---
title: AR Types
module: 15
jotted: false
---

# AR Types

AR.js features the following types of Augmented Reality, on the Web:

## Image Tracking

When a 2D images is found by the camera, it's possible to show some kind of content on top of it, or near it. The content can be a 2D image, a GIF, a 3D model (also animated) and a 2D video too. Cases of use: Augmented Art, learning (Augmented books), Augmented flyers, advertising, etc.

## Location Based AR

This kind of AR uses real-world places in order to show Augmented Reality content, on the user device. The experiences that can be built with this library are those that uses users position in the real world. The user can move (ideally outdoor) and through their smartphones they can see AR content where places are in the real world. Moving around and rotating the phone will make the AR content change according to users position and rotation (so places are 'sticked' in their real position, and appear bigger/thinner according to their distance from the user). With this solution it’s possible to build experiences like interactive support for touristic guides, support when exploring a new city, find places of interest like buildings, museums, restaurants, hotels and so on. It’s also possible to build learning experiences like treasure hunts and biology or history learning games, or use this technology for situated art (visual art experiences bound to specific real world coordinates).

## Marker Tracking

When a marker is found by the camera, it's possible to show some content (same as Image Tracking). Markers are very stable but limited in shape, color and size. It is suggested for those experiences where are required a lot of different markers with different content. Examples of use: (Augmented books), Augmented flyers, advertising.

## Key points

1. Very Fast : It runs efficiently even on phones
2. Web-based : It is a pure web solution, so no installation required. Full javascript based on three.js + A-Frame + jsartoolkit5
3. Open Source : It is completely open source and free of charge!
Standards : It works on any phone with webgl and webrtc
4. AR.js has reached version 3. This is the official repository: https://github.com/AR-js-org/AR.js. If you want to visit the old AR.js repository, here it is: https://github.com/jeromeetienne/AR.js.

<a href="https://ar-js-org.github.io/AR.js-Docs/" target="_blank">Source</a>